DOCS-460: Adding tutorial content for Plan Motion with an Arm and a Gripper (#873)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/motion/plan-motion-with-arm-gripper.md

tags: ["arm", "gripper", "motion"]
# SMEs: William S.
---

{{< alert title="Caution" color="caution" >}}
Be careful when instructing robot arms to move.
Before running any code, ensure your robotic arm has enough space and that there are no obstacles.
Also pay attention to your surroundings, double-check your code for correctness, and make sure anyone nearby is aware and alert before issuing commands to your robot.
{{< /alert >}}

Moving individual components is a good way to start your Viam experience, but when looking to program and execute more complex robotic motions, more specialized parts of the RDK are required.
The [Robot Development Kit (RDK)](/program/rdk/) provides a [Motion service](/services/motion/) which enables sophisticated movements involving one or many components of your robot.
The Motion service is one of the "built-in" services, which means that no initial configuration is required to start planning and executing complex motion.
All that is necessary is that your robot includes components which can move, such as a robotic arm.

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}

> Code examples in this tutorial use a [UFACTORY xArm 6](https://www.ufactory.cc/product-page/ufactory-xarm-6), but you can use any arm model.

Author: Nice touch

{{< /alert >}}

## Prerequisites

Before starting this tutorial, make sure you have the [Viam Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/) or the [Viam Go SDK](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/robot/client#section-readme) installed.

If you are connecting to a real robotic arm during this tutorial, make sure your computer can communicate with the controller before continuing.

Make sure you have mastery of the concepts outlined in the first Motion tutorial, [Access and Move a Robot Arm](/tutorials/motion/accessing-and-moving-robot-arm), before continuing.
This tutorial picks up right where **Access and Move a Robot Arm** stops, so further examples depend on having a connected robot, client and service access, and other infrastructure in place.
This also helps simplify and shorten the code examples presented below.

For a helpful recap of what code we previously added, look at [the full code sample from the prior tutorial](/tutorials/motion/accessing-and-moving-robot-arm#full-tutorial-code).

## Configure a Robot

> The robot configuration from the prior tutorial should be used for this tutorial.

Author: Mmm, not a bad idea

- [ ] Add full config to tutorial from DOCS-459

We will revisit that robot configuration and add new components during specific sections below.

## Accessing the Motion Service

Accessing the Motion service is very similar to accessing any other component or service within the Viam ecosystem.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

<!-- TODO: Add Python -->
```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}
You must import an additional Go package to access the Motion service.
Add `"go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion"` to your import list and then add the sample code below to your own client script.

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
motionService, err := motion.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Once the Motion service can be accessed, some familiar features become available.

> The Motion service has a method that can get the Pose of a component relative to a **reference frame**.

Author: In the last tutorial, we did `Pose` in the Pose Commands section and lower-case pose in some higher-up sections. I kinda like the `pose` formatting best, although that can get stale quickly.

- [ ] I'll think about it and come back around to fix this

In the tutorial where we interacted with an Arm component, the `EndPosition` method was what we used to determine the Pose of the end effector of `myArm`.
The `GetPose` method provided by the Motion service serves a similar function to `EndPosition`, but allows for querying of Pose data with respect to other elements of the robot (such as another component or the robot's fixed "world" frame).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

<!-- TODO: Add Python -->
```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}
Note the use of `referenceframe.World` in the following code example.

> This is a constant string value in the RDK's `referenceframe` library that is maintained for user and programmer convenience.

Reviewer: That is true - I actually think it can just be this
```suggestion
This is a constant string value in the `referenceframe` library that is maintained for user and programmer convenience.
```

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
myArmMotionPose, err = motionService.GetPose(context.Background(), myArmResource, referenceframe.World, nil, nil)
if err != nil {
  fmt.Println(err)
}
fmt.Println("GetPose result for myArm position:", myArmMotionPose.Point())  // TODO: Correct?
fmt.Println("GetPose result for myArm orientation:", myArmMotionPose.Orientation())  // TODO: Correct?
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

In this example, we are asking the Motion service where the end of `myArm` is with respect to the root "world" reference frame.

## Describing the Robot's Working Environment

> Now that the Motion service has been properly introduced, a small detour is warranted.

Author: I am open to whatever segue we would like

> Now that the Motion service has been properly introduced, a small detour is warranted.

Author: Updated in the new PR going up soon!

// Create a WorldState that has the GeometriesInFrame included
obstaclesInFrame := referenceframe.NewGeometriesInFrame(referenceframe.World, obstacles)
worldState := &referenceframe.WorldState{
  Obstacles: []*referenceframe.GeometriesInFrame{obstaclesInFrame},
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

This example adds a "table" with the assumption that you may have mounted your robot arm to an elevated surface.
The 2000 millimeter by 2000 millimeter dimensions ensure that a sufficiently large box is considered, regardless of the real physical footprint of your mounting surface.
Feel free to change these dimensions, including thickness (the Z coordinate in the above code samples), to match your environment more closely.
Additional obstacles can also be *appended* as desired.

{{< alert title="Tip" color="note" >}}
Within the App, the **Frame System** tab in the **Config** section of your robot gives you the ability to experiment with various geometry representations with better visual feedback.
{{< /alert >}}

<!-- TODO : Add a picture example of a geometry specified through the Frame System tab -->

## Commanding an Arm to Move with the Motion Service

> Commanding motion with the Motion service has a more general feel than previous examples that were commanding motion for individual components.

Author: ```suggestion
Commanding motion with the Motion Service has a more general feel than previous examples that were commanding motion for individual components.
In previous examples you controlled motion of individual components.
Now you will use the Motion Service to control the motion of the robot as a whole.
```

> Commanding motion with the Motion service has a more general feel than previous examples that were commanding motion for individual components.

Author: The comment I just added took the second choice and capitalized Service; going to go with that.

> The Motion's `Move` method is what you will use when executing more general robotic motion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will use the Motion Service's `Move` method to execute more general robotic motion.
```

> You can designate specific components to plan motion for by passing in the resource name (note the use of the arm resource in the code samples below).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can designate specific components to plan for motion by passing in the resource name (note the use of the arm resource in the code samples below).
```
or eliminate "for" altogether? not sure

Author: The action of this sentence impedes eloquence. Probably something closer to

`You can designate specific components for motion planning by passing in...`

Author: ```suggestion
You can designate specific components for motion planning by passing in the resource name (note the use of the arm resource in the code samples below).
```

> The `worldState` we constructed earlier is also passed in so that the Motion service can consider additional information when planning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `worldState` we constructed earlier is also passed in so that the Motion Service can consider additional information when planning.
```

The sample pose given below can be adjusted to fit your specific circumstances.
Remember that X, Y, and Z coordinates are specified in millimeters.

Again, a note:

{{< alert title="Caution" color="caution" >}}

> Executing code presented after this point *will* induce motion in a connected robotic arm!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Executing code presented after this point *will* induce motion in a connected robotic arm!
Keep the space around the arm clear!
```

Author: - [ ] I guess I missed this one but I meant to include it...will manually add in the other changes I make tomorrow.

Because of experimental API changes that are ongoing, we must pass in a `slam` service resource name when using the Motion service to Move.
Add `"go.viam.com/rdk/services/slam"` to your import list to provide access to the `slam` service.
This tutorial will not cover any other SLAM content.

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Generate a sample "start" pose to demonstrate motion
testStartPose := spatialmath.NewPose(
  r3.Vector{X: 510.0, Y: 0.0, Z: 526.0},
  &spatialmath.OrientationVectorDegrees{OX: 0.7071, OY: 0.0, OZ: -0.7071, Theta: 0.0},
)
testStartPoseInFrame := referenceframe.NewPoseInFrame(referenceframe.World, testStartPose)
_, err = motionService.Move(context.Background(), myArmResource, testStartPoseInFrame, worldState, nil, slam.Named(""), nil)
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<!-- TODO : In the future, we should add some specific information on the importance of the frame chosen as the point of reference for PoseInFrame variables -->
<!-- ## Managing Pose References -->

## Commanding Other Components to Move with the Motion Service

This section will require you to add a new component to your robot.

> One device that is very commonly attached to the end of a robot arm is a **gripper**.

Author: Ah, good question. This may be the time to start doing so. At a minimum, users should be comfortable adding a fake gripper to their robot.

This is truly where Motion Planning starts to become useful, and definitely needs to be part of this tutorial.

> One device that is very commonly attached to the end of a robot arm is a **gripper**.

Reviewer 2: Hmm. Is there a specific person I should follow up with?

Most robot arms pick up and manipulate objects in the world through the use of a gripper, so learning how to directly command a gripper to move is highly valuable.

> Though future Motion service commands will command the gripper to move, ultimately the arm is doing all of the work in situation.

Author: Yep, weird miss on my part.

This is made possible by the fact that the Motion service considers other parts of the robot (through the **Frame System**) when calculating how to achieve the desired motion.

### Add a Gripper Component

We need to do several things to prepare a new Gripper component for motion.

1. Go back to your robot configuration in App.
2. Under the **COMPONENTS** section, add a new `gripper` component to your robot with the following attributes:

* Choose `myGripper` as the name of this new component
* Choose `gripper` as the desired **Type** selection
* Choose `fake` as the desired **Model** selection

3. Add a **Frame** to this component

> * Mark the parent as `myArm`

Reviewer 2: These bullets just need 4 spaces in front of each of them (which the other motion tutorial actually has currently as of https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/pull/891 so that one is good to go ;) )

* Mark the translation as something small in the +Z direction, ex. 90 mm

> * Leave the orientation as the default

Reviewer 2: What is the default orientation? In case they accidentally change it?

Author: Type is set as `Orientation Vector (Degrees)`. Coordinates are `X:0, Y:0, Z:1, Th:0`

Reviewer 2: Maybe include that in case they mess it up and need to restore defaults? IDK

* Specify a "Box" for the geometry

> * Put in desired values for the Box's **Length**, **Width**, and **Height**, and the Box origin's **X**, **Y**, and **Z** values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Enter desired values for the box's **Length**, **Width**, and **Height**, and the box origin's **X**, **Y**, and **Z** values.
```

4. Mark the `myArm` component as what the new `myGripper` *Depends On*
5. Save this new robot configuration
  * Your `viam-server` instance should update automatically.

<!-- TODO : Add a picture of a sample gripper configuration -->

> Because the new gripper component is "attached" (via the parent specification in the Frame ) to `myArm`, we can produce motion plans using `myGripper` instead of `myArm` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the new gripper component is "attached" (with the parent specification in the Frame) to `myArm`, we can produce motion plans using `myGripper` instead of `myArm` 
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

<!-- TODO: Add Python -->
```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}
The last library you must import is the `gripper` library.

> This can be done by adding the `"go.viam.com/rdk/components/gripper"` library to your import list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do this by adding the `"go.viam.com/rdk/components/gripper"` library to your import list.
```

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
gripperName := "myGripper"
gripperResource := gripper.Named(gripperName)

// This will move the gripper in the -Z direction with respect to its own reference frame
gripperPoseRev := spatialmath.NewPose(
  r3.Vector{X: 0.0, Y: 0.0, Z: -100.0},
  &spatialmath.OrientationVectorDegrees{OX: 0.0, OY: 0.0, OZ: 1.0, Theta: 0.0},
)
gripperPoseRevInFrame := referenceframe.NewPoseInFrame(gripperName, gripperPoseRev) // Note the change in frame name

_, err = motionService.Move(context.Background(), gripperResource, gripperPoseRevInFrame, worldState, nil, slam.Named(""), nil)
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> For the gripper pose, you could change the reference frame information to consider other frames as the point of reference.

Author: - [ ] Add more detail here.

> For the gripper pose, you could change the reference frame information to consider other frames as the point of reference.

Author: Also incorporated the suggestion from above

---
title: "Plan Motion with an Arm and a Gripper"
linkTitle: "Plan Motion with an Arm"
weight: 20
type: "docs"
description: "Use the Motion Service to move robot arms and other components."
tags: ["arm", "gripper", "motion"]
# SMEs: William S.
---

{{< alert title="Caution" color="caution" >}}
Be careful when instructing robot arms to move.
Before running any code, ensure your robotic arm has enough space and that there are no obstacles.
Also pay attention to your surroundings, double-check your code for correctness, and make sure anyone nearby is aware and alert before issuing commands to your robot.
{{< /alert >}}

> Moving individual components is a good way to start using Viam, but there is so much more you can do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving individual components, like [an arm](../services/accessing-and-moving-robot-arm/), is a good way to start using Viam, but there is so much more you can do.
```

Author: - [ ] Add the link back to the first tute

> The [Motion Service](/services/motion/) enables sophisticated movements involving one or many components of your robot.

Author: - [ ] Minor change and either way is cool to me

The Motion Service is one of the "built-in" services, which means that no initial configuration is required to start planning and executing complex motion.

> All you need is a robot with a component that can move, such as a robotic arm.

Reviewer: Let's move that to "Configure a robot" just before "Accessing the Motion Service":

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}

> Code examples in this tutorial use a [UFACTORY xArm 6](https://www.ufactory.cc/product-page/ufactory-xarm-6), but you can use any [arm model](/components/arm/).

Reviewer: Adding a link to the tutorial code so people know it exists in case they get lost
```suggestion
Code examples in this tutorial use a [UFACTORY xArm 6](https://www.ufactory.cc/product-page/ufactory-xarm-6), but you can use any [arm model](/components/arm/).
The [full tutorial code](#full-tutorial-code) is available at the end of this page.
```

Author: - [ ] Add code link

{{< /alert >}}

## Prerequisites

Before starting this tutorial, make sure you have the [Viam Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/) or the [Viam Go SDK](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/robot/client#section-readme) installed.

If you are connecting to a real robotic arm during this tutorial, make sure your computer can communicate with the controller before continuing.

> Make sure you have mastery of the concepts outlined in the first Motion tutorial, [Access and Move a Robot Arm](/tutorials/motion/accessing-and-moving-robot-arm), before continuing.

Reviewer: changing to a relative link
```suggestion
Make sure you have mastery of the concepts outlined in the first Motion tutorial, [Access and Move a Robot Arm](../accessing-and-moving-robot-arm), before continuing.
```

This tutorial picks up right where **Access and Move a Robot Arm** stops, so further examples depend on having a connected robot, client and service access, and other infrastructure in place.
This also helps simplify and shorten the code examples presented below.

For a helpful recap of the code we previously added, look at [the full code sample from the prior tutorial](/tutorials/motion/accessing-and-moving-robot-arm#full-tutorial-code).

## Configure a robot

The [robot configuration from the prior tutorial](/tutorials/motion/accessing-and-moving-robot-arm/#configure-a-robot) should be used for this tutorial.
We will revisit that robot configuration and add new components during specific sections below.

> ## Accessing the Motion Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Access the Motion Service
```

Author: - [ ] No ing

# Get the pose of myArm from the Motion Service
my_arm_motion_pose = await motion_service.get_pose(my_arm_resource, "world")
print(f"Pose of myArm from the Motion Service: {my_arm_motion_pose}")
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}
Note the use of `referenceframe.World` in the following code example.
This is a constant string value in the RDK's `referenceframe` library that is maintained for user and programmer convenience.
Any components that have frame information (and, as a result, are added to the Frame System) are connected to the "world".

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Get the pose of myArm from the Motion Service
myArmMotionPose, err = motionService.GetPose(context.Background(), myArmResource, referenceframe.World, nil, nil)
if err != nil {
  fmt.Println(err)
}
fmt.Println("GetPose result for myArm position:", myArmMotionPose.Point())  // TODO: Correct?
fmt.Println("GetPose result for myArm orientation:", myArmMotionPose.Orientation())  // TODO: Correct?
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

In this example, we are asking the Motion Service where the end of `myArm` is with respect to the root "world" reference frame.

> ## Describing the robot's working environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Describe the robot's working environment
```

Author: - [ ] No ing x2

// Add a table obstacle to a WorldState
obstacles := make([]spatialmath.Geometry, 0)

tableOrigin := spatialmath.NewPose(
  r3.Vector{X: 0.0, Y: 0.0, Z: -10.0},
  &spatialmath.OrientationVectorDegrees{OX: 0.0, OY: 0.0, OZ: 1.0, Theta: 0.0},
)
tableDims := r3.Vector{X: 2000.0, Y: 2000.0, Z: 20.0}
tableObj, _ := spatialmath.NewBox(tableOrigin, tableDims, "table")
obstacles = append(obstacles, tableObj)

// Create a WorldState that has the GeometriesInFrame included
obstaclesInFrame := referenceframe.NewGeometriesInFrame(referenceframe.World, obstacles)
worldState := &referenceframe.WorldState{
  Obstacles: []*referenceframe.GeometriesInFrame{obstaclesInFrame},
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

This example adds a "table" with the assumption that you mounted your robot arm to an elevated surface.
The 2000 millimeter by 2000 millimeter dimensions ensure that a sufficiently large box is constructed, regardless of the real physical footprint of your mounting surface.
Feel free to change these dimensions, including thickness (the Z coordinate in the above code samples), to match your environment more closely.
Additional obstacles can also be *appended* as desired.

> {{< alert title="Tip" color="note" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
```

> Within the App, the **Frame System** tab in the **Config** section of your robot gives you the ability to experiment with various geometry representations with better visual feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the App, you can experiment with various geometry representations with better visual feedback using the **Frame System** tab in the **Config** section of your robot.
```

{{< /alert >}}

<!-- TODO : Add a picture example of a geometry specified through the Frame System tab -->

> ## Commanding an arm to move with the Motion Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Command an arm to move with the Motion Service
```

Author: - [ ] No ing x???

The `worldState` we constructed earlier is also passed in so that the Motion Service can consider additional information when planning.

The sample pose given below can be adjusted to fit your specific circumstances.
Remember that X, Y, and Z coordinates are specified in millimeters.

Again, a note:

{{< alert title="Caution" color="caution" >}}
Executing code presented after this point *will* induce motion in a connected robotic arm!
Keep the space around the arm clear!
{{< /alert >}}
<br><br>
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
# Generate a sample "start" pose to demonstrate motion
test_start_pose = Pose(x=510.0, y=0.0, z=526.0, o_x=0.7071, o_y=0.0, o_z=-0.7071, theta=0.0)
test_start_pose_in_frame = PoseInFrame(reference_frame="world", pose=test_start_pose)

await motion_srv.move(component_name=my_arm_resource, destination=test_start_pose_in_frame, world_state=world_state)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}
Because of ongoing experimental API changes, we must pass in a `slam` service resource name when using the Motion service to `Move`.

> Add `"go.viam.com/rdk/services/slam"` to your import list to provide access to the `slam` service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add `"go.viam.com/rdk/services/slam"` to your import list to provide access to the [SLAM Service](/services/slam).
```

Author: - [ ] Add this

This tutorial will not cover any other SLAM content.

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Generate a sample "start" pose to demonstrate motion
testStartPose := spatialmath.NewPose(
  r3.Vector{X: 510.0, Y: 0.0, Z: 526.0},
  &spatialmath.OrientationVectorDegrees{OX: 0.7071, OY: 0.0, OZ: -0.7071, Theta: 0.0},
)
testStartPoseInFrame := referenceframe.NewPoseInFrame(referenceframe.World, testStartPose)

_, err = motionService.Move(context.Background(), myArmResource, testStartPoseInFrame, worldState, nil, slam.Named(""), nil)
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<!-- TODO : In the future, we should add some specific information on the importance of the frame chosen as the point of reference for PoseInFrame variables -->
<!-- ## Managing Pose References -->

> ## Commanding other components to move with the Motion Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Command other components to move with the Motion Service
```

Author: - [ ] No ing +1

This section will require you to add a new component to your robot.
One device that is very commonly attached to the end of a robot arm is a **gripper**.
Most robot arms pick up and manipulate objects in the world through the use of a gripper, so learning how to directly command a gripper to move is highly valuable.
Though various Motion Service commands cause the gripper to move, ultimately the arm is doing all of the work in these situations.

> This is possible because the Motion Service considers other parts of the robot (through the [Frame System](/services/frame-system/) when calculating how to achieve the desired motion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is possible because the Motion Service considers other parts of the robot (through the [Frame System](/services/frame-system/) when calculating how to achieve the desired motion).
```

### Add a gripper component

We need to do several things to prepare a new gripper component for motion.

1. Go back to your robot configuration in the Viam app.
2. Under the **COMPONENTS** section, add a new `gripper` component to your robot with the following attributes:

> * Set `myGripper` as the **Name** of this new component
> * Set the **Type** to `gripper`
> * Set the **Model** to `fake`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Set `myGripper` as the **Name** of this new component
    * Set the **Type** to `gripper`
    * Set the **Model** to `fake`
```

3. Add a **Frame** to this component

> * Set the parent as `myArm`
> * Set the translation as something small in the +Z direction, such as 90 mm
> * Leave the orientation as the default
> * For **Geometry Type** choose **Box**
> * Enter desired values for the box's **Length**, **Width**, and **Height**, and the box origin's **X**, **Y**, and **Z** values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Set the parent as `myArm`
    * Set the translation as something small in the +Z direction, such as 90 mm
    * Leave the orientation as the default
    * For **Geometry Type** choose **Box**
    * Enter desired values for the box's **Length**, **Width**, and **Height**, and the box origin's **X**, **Y**, and **Z** values.
```

Author: - [ ] Fix indents

4. Include the `myArm` component in the **Depends On** drop-down for `myGripper`
5. Save this new robot configuration

>   * Your `viam-server` instance should update automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Your `viam-server` instance should update automatically.
```

Author: - [ ] Another indent spot

// This will move the gripper in the -Z direction with respect to its own reference frame
gripperPoseRev := spatialmath.NewPose(
  r3.Vector{X: 0.0, Y: 0.0, Z: -100.0},
  &spatialmath.OrientationVectorDegrees{OX: 0.0, OY: 0.0, OZ: 1.0, Theta: 0.0},
)
gripperPoseRevInFrame := referenceframe.NewPoseInFrame(gripperName, gripperPoseRev) // Note the change in frame name

_, err = motionService.Move(context.Background(), gripperResource, gripperPoseRevInFrame, worldState, nil, slam.Named(""), nil)
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

For the gripper pose, you can change the reference frame information to consider other objects or user-generated frames that exist in the Frame System.
Specifying other reference frames is an easy way to move with respect to those frames.
For example, you can specify a pose that is 100 millimeters above the table obstacle featured earlier in this tutorial.
You do not need to calculate that exact pose with respect to the **arm** or **world**.
You must only provide the object name (instead of the `gripperName` you saw in the code samples above) when making the `NewPoseInFrame` to pass into the `Move` function.

> This has implications for how motion is calculated, what magnitude and direction is considered, and what the mot to consider when planning.

Reviewer: I think `mot` might be motion but I think this sentence may need review in full

Author: Oh jeez this was a big flub

Author: Fixed up in next push

> ## Next Steps and References

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next Steps
```

(there are no references)

Author: - [ ] Remove references bit

<!-- TODO: Content below struck out for the moment, saved to point at the next tutorial "Plan Motion with an Arm and with a Gripper" -->
<!--
If you would like to continue onto specific complex motion constraints, go to the next tutorial in this series: "[Put Constraints on a Motion Plan](/tutorials/motion/plan-motion-with-arm-gripper/)".
-->

> 

Reviewer: You've reached the end of this tutorial but if you want to learn more, have a look at our [other tutorial](../../). 

If you encounter any issues while using the Motion Service or otherwise want to chat about the robot you're building, join us in the [Community Discord](https://discord.gg/viam).

Author: Added the top bit, should I take out the `social.md` snippet and replace with the bottom bit?
